Susannah/local host requirements (#3120)
cosmos/ibc-go: docs/requirements/localhost-requirements.md

<!-- More detailed information about the requirements engineering process can be found at https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/wiki/Requirements-engineering -->

# Business requirements

> The local host client provides a unified interface to interact with different applications on a single chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The localhost client provides a unified interface to interact with different applications on a single chain.
```

### Interoperability Infrastructure

Polymer plans to leverage the localhost client with multiple connections as part of their architecture to connect chains not using Tendermint or the Cosmos SDK to IBC enabled chains. Polymer will act as a hub connecting multiple blockchains together. 

# Functional requirements

## Assumptions and dependencies

1. Chains utilising the localhost client must be using an ibc-go release in the v7 line.
2. The channel behaviour of a localhost client will be as ICS 04 specifies.

## Features

### 1 - Configuration

| ID | Description | Verification | Status | 
| -- | ----------- | ------------ | ------ | 
| 1.01 | The localhost client shall have a client ID of the string `09-localhost`. | ------------ | Drafted | 
| 1.02 | The localhost client shall have a sentinel connection ID of the string `connection-localhost`. | ------------ | Drafted | 

> | 1.03 | If more than 1 localhost connection is required, this is possible with a different connection ID. | ------------ | Drafted |

Reviewer: I think there is more work required to support this.

- Remove `len(proof) != 0` checks from connection handshake msgs `ValidateBasic` 
- Determine how connection handshake will handle [`VerifyClientState` and `VerifyClientConsensusState`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/modules/core/03-connection/keeper/handshake.go#L122-L131) for localhost.

Note point 2 may nullify 1.04 here, as if we are supporting connection handshakes we must verify `expectedConsensusState` in `VerifyClientConsensusState` linked above. This calls into `VerifyMembership` and would fail trying to verify a `nil` value.

Reviewer: cc. @AdityaSripal

Reviewer 2: The first point is true, this PR would basically be extended to include the 03-connection messages as well

The verify point is a good question:

The verify messages could do the same as what they already do which is to delegate to the client layer.
The relayer should pass in the localhost client state and nil for the consensus state.
I think this would work if the tx is included at the same block the relayer passes in, which would be quite brittle.

Perhaps we need some specialcase handling here?

Author: I updated the requirement in 1.03 to require only 1 connection following consultation with Polymer that they are happy to handle this special case

| 1.04 | When the localhost client is initialised the consensus state must be `nil`. | ------------ | Drafted |
| 1.05 | The localhost client can be added to a chain through an upgrade. | ------------ | Drafted |

> | 1.06 | A chain can enable the localhost client by initialising the client in the genesis state. | ------------ | Drafted |

Reviewer: Should these be changed from `Drafted` to `Completed` before merging? :)

Reviewer 3: I set it to `Implemented` following the status from [here](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/wiki/Requirements-engineering#requirement-attributes). I will move to `Verified` when v7.1.0 is out.
